>> Judith Orloff
walks in two worlds.
She's a psychiatrist who has
melded her practice in medicine
with her work in the fields
of energy and intuition.
The combination of
these two skills
allows her to take
her clients deep
into their own transformation
and healing process.
As the author of books such as
"Second Sight" and "Positive
Energy," Judith has been able
to help thousands understand
why life can be such a drain
on our energies and emotions.
She says for many
of us it has to do
with being overly empathic and
intuitive, and not knowing it.
You've had an
interesting experience
occur at a tender age.
Can you talk about it,
and how it started shaping
future events in your life?
>> Well, now I'm a psychiatrist,
and I work a lot with
intuition, but
when I was a child,
I would have all these intuitive
experiences that would happen
that would scare me
a tremendous amount.
And my parents were
both physicians,
and I have 25
physicians in my family.
And so I have all of this
logical, linear, rational
family, and I was a little
girl who would predict things.
I would know if
someone was going
to die, if someone was
going to get a divorce,
if they were sick, if
someone was untrustworthy.
And I finally had an
experience with my mother,
where I had a dream
about her mentor
who was running for a
judgeship in Philadelphia.
Not only did he
lose the election,
but someone in the dream ran
up to him and bit his hand
and really injured him.
And I told my mother about
this, and she said, oh,
why do you keep saying
these negative things
about my friends.
And I felt horrible of course.
And it turned out the election
night he did lose the election,
and his daughter-in-law
had a psychotic break
and ran up and bit his
hand at the polling place,
and was taken away to
a psychiatric hospital.
And so at that point
my mother forbade me
to ever mention any of my
intuitions at home again,
and I grew up
believing that there
was something wrong with me.
That I was somehow knowing
about these things,
but I was causing them, at the
same time, which is not true.
Which is not true.
And so I went
through a long period
of running from my
intuitions and feeling
that I wanted to escape it,
and I got very heavily involved
with drugs in the 60's
trying to numb myself out.
I didn't want to
feel your energy.
I didn't want to know
what was inside of you.
I didn't want to know anything.
I didn't want that sensitivity.
And then I had an
experience, around that time,
where I went over
a cliff in a car
one night, where I was partying.
I was out and I met this guy,
and we went up to Tuna Canyon--
which is up near Malibu Canyon--
in the middle of the night.
We were talking,
and then the car--
we were not paying
much attention,
and the car went over the cliff.
And as we were turning--
we went over eight times,
I remember counting--
I got catapulted to this
tunnel, where everything
was amazingly quiet
and blue green,
and just atoms whirling
at enormous speeds.
And I was in this
very quiet place
as the car was going
over, and we landed.
Then I came back
from that place,
and I was unharmed, as he was.
So we climbed up the cliff,
and we went our separate ways.
It was the only time
I ever met this man.
Just--
>> Amazing you went through--
was he driving?
>> Yes, he was.
>> So he just took you into
this experience, really?
>> Yes, we met that night,
we had the experience,
and then we left and
I never saw him again.
So we were just meant to
go through that experience
together.
But after that
experience, my parents
forced me to go
see a psychiatrist,
because they were so afraid
I was harming myself,
which I was.
And he-- the
psychiatrist that they
sent me to was the
first man who really
helped me to learn
about my intuitions,
and realized that I had
to embrace them in order
to be whole and healthy.
So I began working through the
shame of having this ability.
And he got me started on
opening up to intuition,
and sent me over
to Thelma Moss, who
was a parapsychology
researcher at UCLA.
And while I was at Thelma's lab
working there as a volunteer,
I had a dream in which
a voice came to me
and told me to-- that I
was going to get an MD
and become a psychiatrist
to help legitimize intuition
and medicine, very, very clear.
And I woke up in the
morning and I had--
totally surprised.
I had no desire, conscious
desire, to do that.
I was more artistic, and living
in Venice Beach with my artist
boyfriend.
But because I was beginning
to trust my intuition,
I went and enrolled
at a junior college.
I'd been out of school, and
then one course became two,
became 14 years of
medical training.
>> How did that work for you,
going through the traditional
methodologies and
the root of medicine,
knowing what you already knew
and what you were going to be
bringing to it later?
It sounds like it took a lot
of patience and diligence
on your part to go through this.
Although you do have
a historical precedent
in your family for it.
>> I do, but I had to learn
how to really exercise my left
brain.
I didn't know how
to learn science.
I was very artistic, and I never
learned how to really do that.
And so I had to learn,
and I had many angels
who came in my path
to help me to do that,
because I needed help.
And I developed
a deep, deep love
for medicine and
the human body as I
was going through my training.
And what was just really--
you know, I fell in love when I
first started seeing patients,
because I got to
sit by the bedside
and listen to patients
tell their stories,
and it was-- it for me.
I always loved it.
I still-- it is what makes being
a physician so powerful for me.
And so I combine
traditional medicine.
I have a deep love for what I
learned in my medical school
training about the body.
I was in surgeries seeing
the body exposed and holding
organs in my hand, and
seeing a heart pumping,
and holding the GI tract
in my hand, and the uterus,
and kidneys.
And I saw everything, and
certainly from my intuition,
touching these organs
really helped me,
because I remember things.
And you have the sense
memory in your hands,
and so, as working
with intuition,
that helps me tremendously
now because I remember.
I know the vibe of the body.
I know the energy in the body.
And so I continue to have a
deep love for medicine now,
and so I combine traditional
medicine with intuition.
I don't have a preference.
I don't.
I mean, I see them
as being interwoven.
And I just use the best
from traditional medicine
and also intuition,
spirituality, subtle energies
to help my patients.
Whatever will help, I will do.
I don't have any bias.
>> So when someone--
when you first started
taking clients--
or patients, started
seeing patients,
did you immediately kick
in to the blend of both
of your skills?
Or did you have to follow
protocols rather strictly,
because you were
new at the game?
Or how did this start
blossoming for you
in the beginning toward
what it is today?
>> Well, I wrote--
this is my journey I wrote my
first book, "Second Sight,"
and I really chronicled
everything that I went through.
But what was so
interesting is that, when
I went into medical
school, I strayed very far
from the intuitive
realm, and I went
the exact opposite
direction for 12 years.
I would see patients come
in, rolling in on gurneys,
claiming to be psychic.
And tied down, with the police
there, and saying, I'm psychic,
I'm hearing the voice of God
and the FBI is out to get me,
and my food is poisoned.
And so we would take these
psychotic patients up
to the inpatient wards
and medicate them
with Haldol, Thorazine,
and they would no longer
think they were psychic
or talking to God,
or that their food was poisoned.
And so I began to
think that it was
dangerous and inappropriate to
use this ability in medicine,
because the only
example I saw were
these psychotic people
would come in, you know,
who may or may not have
been intuitive and psychic.
You know, it's a mixed bag.
You have to really
take a person's history
to find out what's going on.
So for 12 years, I went
the opposite direction,
and my UCLA training program was
very heavily biologically based
in that I learned how
to give out medication
and learned about
the neurochemicals
of human behavior, but very
little about anything else.
That was my training.
And it was fascinating,
but limited.
>> Yes.
Well let's talk about
psychosis for a moment.
Before we start going into
all the really juicy stuff
that you've been writing
about in recent years and now,
what about psychosis?
What did you begin to
understand over time?
Like you say, it's
a mixed bag, and you
go into personal history.
You'll see someone
ranting on the street,
someone's talking to them.
What do you have
to share with us,
because that seems to
be increasing in nature.
A lot more people, the
lines are blurring.
And is it because
veils are blurring,
or because the mind is
actually having its own shift
or breakdown?
What are you seeing
in that trend?
>> It depends.
It depends.
Psychosis is so complex.
Mostly, it's a
biochemical imbalance
that causes people
to suffer, and it has
nothing to do with psychic or--
everything is spiritual.
So somebody is
schizophrenic, someone
having a psychotic
episode, there's
always a spiritual
component to it, always.
The lesson that comes from
that, and why we experience
anything in this world.
However, when
people used to call
me having psychotic
episodes, they
wanted to develop their
psychic abilities,
but yet they couldn't take
care of their clothing,
or their food, or their
shelter, and they were just
totally ungrounded, so it wasn't
the time or place to do it.
And they used to get mad at me.
They said, but you're the
one we were told to come to.
And I said, yeah,
but first you have
to take care of these
very basic life issues,
and then we'll see.
When you're more grounded, we'll
deal with the intuitive issues.
But they didn't never like that.
[LAUGHING]
>> They wanted something
a little more fun,
a little more quickly.
Well, let's go into some of the
work that you've been doing,
because that
actually will lead us
into-- one of them I
wanted to get into which
has to be with energy vampires.
A lot of people, they
told me to do it,
they've been trying
to make me do it.
OK, that's the
extreme psychosis end.
But on the other
hand, a lot of people
do feel greatly impacted
by the energy of others.
A lot of people are
empathic, are intuitive,
are actually hearing
things that are genuine.
They're genuinely coming
to them for a reason.
Can we launch into that for--
is it appropriate at this time
to go into that?
>> Right.
Right.
Well, I wrote my
book positive energy
to discuss the kind
of new psychiatry
I'm pioneering called
energy psychiatry.
And what that is, is that
combines traditional psychiatry
with an appreciation of
spirituality and intuition,
and subtle energies,
and the unseen realm.
And it's so exciting to me to
bring all of those together.
And so I look at a
human being, not only as
flesh and blood, and the
material, which we all are,
but we have these subtle energy
fields that go through the body
and expand way beyond the body,
the auras or the energy field.
And these interrelate
all the time,
and this affects health and
well-being, tremendously.
>> Right.
Let's talk about some of
the ways that happens.
A lot of times people--
well, one thing that
you write about that
seems to be literally
an epidemic is fatigue.
Everyone's exhausted
and tired all the time.
A lot of people
are all the time--
>> Right, yeah.
>> --if they haven't learned
to manage their energies,
their biology, and so forth.
In terms of-- we can guess--
we know a lot about the
biological realm of it,
and you have to feed your body,
exercise, fresh air, sunlight.
Let's talk about the
energetic component
to that kind of an energy
drain that's happening in mass.
>> Well, one thing that's really
important for people to know is
the concept that I discussed
called intuitive empathy.
And what intuitive
empathy is, is
that some people, many people,
are very, very sensitive,
and they can sense
energy at a distance,
but they take on the energy
in their bodies like a sponge
and become exhausted.
And so these walking energy
sponges, all around in life,
not knowing how to work
with that or ground it,
not knowing at
all what happened.
When I was a little
girl, I could not
go into shopping malls
or crowded places,
because I'd walk in feeling fine
and leave feeling exhausted,
or with some ache
or pain I didn't
have before, or depressed or
anxious, or something not good.
>> That happens to me.
>> That happens to you?
It happens to a lot
of people, and they
don't know what to make of it.
They don't have a
language to describe
what's happening to them.
And if they go to a
traditional doctor, who
doesn't believe in
these subtle energies,
then they won't get any answers.
And what happens
is they get sent
through a whole entire medical
work up, MRIs, blood tests,
scans, and it usually
comes back pretty negative.
And then they get sent
to me, someone like me,
a psychiatrist to go on Prozac.
>> Right.
>> Which is not the
treatment for this.
[LAUGHING]
>> Well, let's talk about what
the treatment for this actually
is.
Well, let me just
say that, for people
who want to know if they're
an intuitive empath,
some of the telltale signs
to look for in themselves
are if you've been labeled as
overly sensitive all your life.
>> And you have a wonderful
little self-quiz on your site.
>> I do.
On page 29 of "Positive
Energy," and on my website,
I have a quiz.
Have you been labeled
as overly sensitive?
Do you go home alone to refuel?
Are you very sensitive to noise,
sounds, or excessive talking?
Do go to the refrigerator
to overeat when
you're around negative energy?
Do you prefer being by
yourself a lot of the time?
Do you take your own car places,
because you want to get out?
Now those kinds of things.
They're telltale
signs of an empath.
>> Yes.
And a lot of people
watching this
would probably fall
in that category.
>> Oh you have no idea how many
people email me and write me
about being an empath, and how
it was a huge revelation and no
one has put a name to it before.
It's really something
that needs to be
incorporated in the psychiatric
diagnostic criteria.
>> Rather than have your
family just shout out,
you need thicker skin.
That doesn't do it.
>> Exactly.
Exactly.
You need a thicker skin,
or what's wrong with you,
toughen up.
>> Yeah, toughen up.
>> No.
I mean, the point
is, if you want
to experience spirituality
and intuition,
and go beyond the material,
sensitivity and empathy
is your way in.
And so this is
something you want.
But you have to learn how to
manage the downside of it,
which is taking on the energy of
others or being so overwhelmed,
in our coarse world, that you
don't know how to function,
so you want to withdraw
and become a recluse.
>> Yes.
>> All right.
So you don't want that.
But see, the problem
is most people don't
know how to manage their
energy, so they get diagnoses,
such as fibromyalgia, or
chronic fatigue, or you know,
various mystery symptoms
that nobody can ever explain,
but they're very debilitating,
or irritable bowel syndrome.
Any kind of
energetic disturbance
can aggravate or cause
those kinds of disorders,
and so it's very important
to take an energetic history
and ask yourself if you're
an intuitive empath.
And with all of my
patients, I talk to them
about how they process
energy in the world.
And some people
don't take on energy.
You know, I have--
and it doesn't-- one is
not better than the other.
I'm not saying that.
It's just I'm bringing
up intuitive empathy,
because it's such an
issue for so many people,
and it has been for myself.
But some people are very
solid earth-centered bodies,
and they could be
around anything
and it doesn't come in.
>> Yeah.
>> All right?
That's not my body, and it's
not a lot of people's body,
but it's OK.
And you can still be
intuitive, and sensitive,
and open, with a body that
doesn't take on energy.
All right?
However, if you do have a
body that takes on energy,
and you have that
sensitivity, it
can really work
for you, because it
lets you probe into
the depths of things,
into the deep core
center of things.
It allows you to know about
the nature of the universe
and life, because
you're able to sense it.
>> Yeah.
>> And this is good.
>> Yeah, this is good.
What do you do about
the downsides, though?
Just-- I know you can't reveal
everything in your books,
because we don't have time.
But just to give us a little
hint of some of the things
we can do, if we're
empathic by nature,
to keep our own
energies more intact.
Some of the first
symptoms and signs
you see, and some of the
quick fixes you can do.
>> Right.
Well, the first thing
that everyone must do
is use your intuition
when you're around people,
and ascertain if your
energy goes up around people
or down around people.
That's a body intuition.
That's powerful.
And not to have your
head talk you out of it.
And so you could
be around somebody
who's smart and funny, and
successful and attractive,
whatever they have, but yet
your energy is going down
and you want to take a nap
after you're with them.
You don't marry that person.
>> Yes.
>> You don't go out
with that person.
It seems logical, but
people don't know that.
>> No, it's just they have
everything on the list.
>> It's the list, but can't--
they don't have the vocabulary
to say, that's fine, but also on
my list is that my energy needs
to be compatible
with this person.
>> Very good.
Very true.
Very essential point.
>> No, that's not
on anybody's list.
Hopefully it will be
more on people's list.
>> It's not on our list
for people that we marry.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not on our list for
jobs that we take, friendships.
>> Exactly.
>> Let's talk about how
indiscreet we are as a species,
at this point, and really take
a little deeper look at that,
what we do to ourselves.
>> Well, yes, I think to really
take good care of yourself,
in terms of your
own positive energy,
you need to ask
yourself that question,
and not talk yourself out of it.
And other people will try
and talk you out of it,
because they don't
know about energy.
At least the ones that
don't know about energy
will try to talk you out of it.
So this isn't about
getting a popular vote
about how you feel.
This is just simply about
how you experience somebody.
That's it.
That's the criteria.
And you have to learn
how to trust yourself.
So you need to
gravitate towards people
who have positive
energy, and these people
will feel nurturing,
your energy will go up,
you'll feel better
around them, and you'll
feel uplifted and brighter.
And some days you
might want to hug them,
or your body wants to
get closer to them.
You're not crossing
your arms or going back,
or you know, all
those things where
you're not comfortable
with someone's energy.
So you need to find
people like that,
and use your body
to tell you who
it likes to go to, basically.
All right?
And then,
alternatively, you have
to sense the energy
vampires, the people who
suck your energy dry.
And how do you know you're
around one is that you're--
suddenly you feel like taking a
nap, or you start feeling sick,
or you start feeling tired.
Because a lot of
times, empaths can
get actual physical symptoms
around an energy vampire.
You can get your
heart palpitating,
you could start feeling
sick to your stomach,
you know, all kinds of things.
However your body reacts,
these are all signs.
So it's important to, first of
all, notice who you react to
and how your energy is
doing around people.
Very important.
I mean, if you simply ask
yourself that question,
that will give you a whole new
awareness of relationships,
and jobs, and--
>> I was just
going to bring up--
>> --places.
>> --those are two
of the words I wrote.
Yes, that's very true.
People put themselves
in situations--
because it's on the list,
it seems like a good thing,
there's job security--
when it's a complete mismatch
for their energy all the time.
How do you guide people
in this, when they've just
invested, say, 10 years of
education into something that
really does not serve them?
>> In terms of a job or--
>> In terms of their lives, how
do you tell someone that's done
this, oh, I'm sorry, but what
you do is a total mismatch
for you.
Look at the evidence
is right there.
Every time you-- every
day you go to work.
>> Well, sometimes it's not
the actual field that you go
into, but it could be the job
environment that's unhealthy
for you and not in energetic
sync with who you are.
And so for instance, if you
have a bully boss, or an energy
vampire who criticizes you, and
judges you, and is rude to you
every day, day after
day, that's going
to take a toll on
you, especially
if you're an intuitive
empath you're
going into that environment.
All right?
So you have to make certain
choices in that environment.
If possible, it's good not to
work with people like that.
If possible, if
you have a choice.
>> What if you don't?
What if you're there,
you love your job,
but this person is a real
pain to you, an energy suck?
How do you correct that?
>> It depends what kind of
energy vampire they are.
I go through a number
of energy vampires,
and one in a work environment
is very common is a drama queen.
This is somebody who wears
you out with off the chart
dramas all the time at work.
Where they can't get into
work because their car--
their tires are flat, or
they couldn't get a ride,
or they have the flu
and are about to die.
I mean, one thing after
another, after another.
And they come up to you
at your lunch break,
and you're trying to
replenish yourself,
and they're, yeah,
going on and on and on.
So what do you do?
You know, what do you do
in situations like that?
The drama queen is actually
the easiest energy vampire
to deal with, because the way
to deal with a drama queen
is not to ever ask him
or her how they're doing.
You never do that.
And you don't give
them any juice,
when they start revving up.
You have to stay calm,
you have to breathe,
you have to stay centered.
And you have to say, God, I'm so
sorry that's happening to you.
You know, I hope you
really get it figured out.
I'm so sorry, I've got to
go back to my work now.
And use the body
posture to move the body
in the opposite direction,
instead of sitting like this
and saying, oh my God,
tell me what happened.
>> Go into that a
little bit more?
>> The body posture?
Oh, well, if you're
talking to somebody
and you're genuinely
concerned about them,
but you realize you have to
set limits with this person,
you can cross your arms,
you could cross your legs.
You can turn towards the desk
and start looking at the paper,
and then look back at them.
You give them a message
through your body language
that you're not
engaging with them.
But you have a
kind but firm tone.
You don't look at
them and say, I
am sick and tired of all this
drama, you've got to stop it.
>> Right.
Because you're kind of
buying into it there.
But you're feeding
that energy in a bit,
even though they may
not come back to you.
That doesn't feel good
for either of you.
>> Well, no they--
they will-- they will amp it up.
>> Yeah.
>> If that doesn't work.
Yeah.
[LAUGHING]
>> You know, the way to
approach an energy drain,
an energy vampire, is to
have a kind but firm tone,
be very consistent
and non-reactive.
Because energy vampires
feed off of your reactivity.
>> Right.
>> So if you're getting
upset, you're getting angry,
and you're getting frustrated,
they're getting what they want.
[LAUGHING]
>> You've engaged, and they've
got some energy to feed off of.
>> Right.
On the other hand, you're
not cold or disrespectful.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
What about-- OK, you say that's
the easiest to deal with.
What about the control
freak in the office?
And maybe the control
freak is your boss.
>> Well, the boss is
the hardest example,
because they have power over
you in that they tell you what
to do for your job.
However, there are
ways to get around it.
Number one, bullies,
bully bosses,
only seem to pick workers
who are the victims,
and they go right to the victim.
So if you don't give off an
energy that you're a victim,
and that you're cowering
or you are afraid,
they tend to not be
attracted to you.
All right?
So bullies don't
bully other people who
can stick up for themselves.
I mean, that's just a fact.
And so if you're able to have
a certain amount of confidence,
and you set your energy
very centered and firm,
and not going to go into
it, as opposed to cowering
or acting afraid,
then they're less
likely to come back to you.
And also with a bully
boss or a controller,
you can never
control a controller.
That's the wrong approach.
All right?
So you have to really
pick your battles
and be very concrete about
what you'd like to do.
And you've got to frame it in
terms of it being in their best
interest.
>> Interesting.
Give us an example of that.
So you have reframed
the situation.
>> Well, one of the energy
vampires who are controllers
are the narcissists, and
narcissists are everything
about life is me, me, me.
And narcissists can be
charming and wonderful people,
but-- as long as you go
along with their program.
But when you get off
the program and you
do something that
doesn't agree with them,
then they can be very vicious
and cold, and withholding.
And narcissists are
energy vampires,
because they lack
an empathy chip.
They don't have empathy
for other people.
It's a huge omission.
It's a crippling of
the heart that happens.
And so with a
narcissist, you always
have to frame it in terms
of their best interests.
For instance, let's say you
wanted to work different hours.
You cannot say, I need
to work different hours,
because I want to be
home with my children.
You can't put it that way.
You've got to say, I'm
working different hours,
because it will really help
financially help the company
and help you.
So you've got to frame
it to be about them.
It's a little maneuver
and it's a hassle,
you know, you don't
going to keep doing that.
But if you want to have
successful communication
with a narcissist
or a controller,
you have to put it in
their best interests
and not try and control them.
You have to do a
Zen dance with them.
>> What if it's the kind of
controller that's operating out
of fear, fear that everything's
going to fall apart?
They're not a
narcissist, per se,
they just have to
stay hypervigilant
or the whole thing's going
to hell in a handbasket.
>> Right.
It's all based on fear.
So and-- you know, you
look at energy vampires,
we all have the
tendencies in us.
>> Yeah.
>> We all have this, but the
great thing about positive
energy and mindfulness is that
you can see when you're doing
it, and make an effort to stop.
>> Right.
And we can correct ourselves.
But let's go back to
the fearful person,
because I think most of us
have that within our spectrum
of friends, family members, that
just really have to stay on top
just in case everything is going
to go apart on them and they
can't-- they can't handle it.
They won't know what to do.
>> Right.
>> So how do you deal with
that kind of controller?
>> Well, it depends how
it's affecting your life.
If it's just
affecting their life,
you let them do it and you
don't intervene at all.
But if it's affecting
your life, you
have to keep setting
defined limits with them
about how to interact.
So that they don't
impose themselves on you.
And this happens a lot with
in-laws, where in-laws come in
and they try and impose all
their attitudes, and needs,
and desires on the couple.
And so you have to just
tactfully, you know, say, no,
this isn't-- we'll do
this, but we won't do that,
and just gradually
chip away at it.
>> What about-- you
alluded to this earlier,
and I wanted to get into it.
A lot of times, when people are
super empathic, a lot of people
that are psychic and intuitive,
head to the refrigerator.
What is this about the
pain of being that open
and taking it on
that it makes us head
to the refrigerator for comfort,
and that whole spectrum,
because a lot of people I
know that are really, really
psychically endowed often carry
a lot of extra weight too.
>> Right.
Right.
Well, this is such
an interesting topic
to me, because around
the turn of the century,
the faith healers are typically
women who are very obese.
They were about 300 pounds,
250 pounds, really big.
And they claimed
they needed to have
all that fat on them to do the
healing work, because when they
put their hands on
the patients, all
the pain and the negative
energy would come up
and they would absorb
it into their own body,
and it would be too
painful unless they
had all the mass
around them, simply
mass that buffered, you know,
the negativity from coming in.
And if you don't have that
mass, you have a very thin body,
you're more vulnerable
to feeling things.
>> That was the prevailing
thought, you're saying,
at the time.
>> Oh, yes.
Prevailing-- it's
not only at the time.
There are a lot of healers
now who are overweight,
and they claim they
need to be that way
in order to do the work.
And it is true that fat buffers
negative energy, yes, it does,
but it's an unhealthy
coping mechanism.
And so there are
other ways of dealing
with negative energy and
other people's pain other
than taking it on the body.
That's one method of healing is
taking it on in your own body
and filtering it.
All right?
I don't do that.
That is not my way.
I don't have any desire to
take on your pain in my body.
[LAUGHING]
>> Right.
Exactly.
Wise.
>> Why?
>> No, I said that's wise.
You shouldn't do that.
>> No, no, because you
can heal in other ways.
You can heal simply
by being a conduit
and not taking something
on in your body.
But the old view of
healing was that you
need to shoulder it for another
person in order to purify it,
and that's not--
and that's why they
need the weight--
they feel they need
the weight to do that.
But another way to deal with
being open and sensitive
in the world, and even
doing healing work,
is to deal with the
energy differently.
And number one-- I mean, this
sounds like a really simple
solution, but whenever you
are around negative energy,
you have to breathe.
You have to keep
breathing it out,
because people
hold their breath,
their own negative energy.
They get scared and
they clamp down.
So you have-- when you're around
somebody who's criticizing,
who's angry at you,
is controlling you,
whatever people do,
or irritating you,
frustrating you, annoying
you, start breathing.
You have to breathe,
breathe, breathe,
so that the energy
gets filtered out.
You want the energy
filtered out.
And then you have to
ask yourself, all right,
how will I handle this?
All right?
And you do it from a
calm and centered place.
You never react to the person.
Just reacting to them,
that will never work.
All right?
And so you've got to
really center yourself.
And you might be able to
talk to them at a time,
or you might want to go away
and then come back again
and readdress it, which
is really important.
Another quick way to get
rid of negative energy
is to get in water, to
either wash your hands,
or get in the bathtub or in the
shower, anything with water.
And even drinking water helps,
because water is a purifier.
It's a natural purifier.
And so it's important
to drink water.
And then when you're done
with the negative person,
it's very important to
meditate right away,
and to center
yourself, to breathe,
to bring yourself
back and solidify
your inner core or your
heart, so that you're there
and they haven't taken
anything from you.
If you're jangled and you
want to come back to center.
>> OK, yes.
>> And so to meditate-- there's
a three minute meditation I
talk about in positive energy,
which I use all the time
in my life.
So I'm always bringing
myself back to center.
Just the world is
always throwing me off,
and I'm always coming back.
>> Right.
[LAUGHING]
>> Happens all the time,
so it's very practical,
and I'm dependent on it.
I'm used to it now.
>> So breathing, water,
and immediately going
into meditation.
I mean, utilizing water.
I found-- I used to find
if I go into a place,
especially as I got
older and more sensitive,
say to a place to dance where
there's really loud music,
I would find I wouldn't
be able to even go
to sleep that night if
I didn't take a shower,
and really just get the
jangly energy out of my field.
>> Right.
>> And that's not even
necessarily negativity,
it's just too much.
It's an overload.
Let's talk about
that for a moment.
What happens in this
world, we have--
where we have so
much sound pollution,
people, noise,
talking pollution,
every kind of
pollution going on.
How do you manage
that in your own life?
Do you try to
minimize your contact,
or do you just use the
techniques you know?
>> Well, it depends.
If I'm out in the world, I do a
lot of traveling and teaching,
so I have to go
in airports, which
are the bane of my existence.
They're the hardest part for
me as being an empath, going
in airports, with
the loudspeakers,
and the masses of people,
and the lack of aesthetics.
And it's just they're
horrible places for me,
in terms of my
sensitivity, so I've
had to learn to really
center myself in airports.
And I go into the
bathroom in airports a lot
and do the three
minute meditation,
so that I can center
myself and go out again
from a better place.
And also going through
security is very hard for me.
>> Oh, you mean when they're
roughing you up and have you
take your clothing
off, and so forth?
I get that one.
We're in airports
a fair amount too.
>> Yeah, and they
put you through--
some of these airports put
you in these horrible machines
called puffers.
And they don't tell you--
they close the door,
which to an empath, you don't
want to be in a closed space.
That's not good.
And then it makes
the horrible noise,
and this powder puffs up.
It's a horrible experience.
>> I have never
been in the puffer.
>> It's some-- it's--
well, hopefully you will
never go through one.
But it's-- you
know, for an empath,
it's a horrifying experience
to have to go through.
And they don't
warn you about it,
and then they just send
you on your way afterwards.
It's the most insensitive thing.
But the point is that going
through life, airport security,
these kinds of things,
a very noisy world,
we have to really
learn to work with it.
I mean, after that
experience, I'll
go in the bathroom and
meditate, instead of just
being upset and jangled.
I'll meditate and I'll
come back to myself again.
>> Let's talk about the
subject of creativity.
Often we put that at the
very end of our list.
Oh, if I have any energy or
time left I'll get around
to my dancing, or my drawing,
or whatever it is I love doing,
and then it drops off the
list, because we're too tired.
But we really need to use and
access our creativity don't we?
>> If you're moved to, yeah.
Creativity is all
about intuition.
It's about opening up
to the flow of life
and letting it move you,
and whatever you do,
it can be cutting a flower,
or it can be walking down
the street creatively,
it could be dancing,
it could be writing, it could be
painting, it could be anything.
Creativity is anything.
But it-- what's so
wonderful about it
is that you have to
open up to a larger flow
and let it flow
through you, and that's
why it's so healthy,
because you get cleansed
and you get purified through
the creative energies,
because you're forced to open
and not just stay in your head.
You can't just be in your
head and be totally creative.
Certainly there's
intellectual creativity,
but there's more than
intellectual creativity.
So when you open up and you're
a conduit for another force
to flow through you,
then all kinds of things
can happen that are
just totally amazing.
I mean, I've devoted so much
of my life to my creative life,
especially writing a book.
I could-- I just
finished a book,
and I was basically writing
for four years for me
to write a book.
And that means a
lot of alone time
in my interior world opening up
to whatever flows through me.
It's something that
expands my intuition,
and my soul yearns for it,
that kind of expansion.
And so for me, it's absolutely
essential, it's a criteria.
And it's one kind of trepidation
I have about a relationship,
a romantic
relationship, because I
need to have my alone
time as an empath
and as a creative person to
write without intrusions,
and I can feel if someone's
hovering by the door.
[CHUCKLING]
>> Yeah.
>> It's intrusive to me.
So you know, it's worked before,
but somebody would really
have to honor my creativity
in relationships for them
to be healthy living
in the same space
or spending a lot of
time in the same space.
Someone would have to really
understand that about me,
because it's not something I can
give up, nor would I want to.
And so it's going inward,
creativity, and connecting.
And for me this is my passion
is going inward and connecting
to myself, but
also to everything.
It starts here and then it
expands to every single thing,
and I love that.
>> Well, and that kind of
creativity is the kind--
as you say, there's a difference
between that and intellectual
creativity in that that's the
time that moves beyond a time
space continuum, for example.
It's the kind that
makes time stand still.
So if we each go inside
and ask ourselves,
what is it that makes
time stand still for me,
might we be getting close
to the kernel of where
we should be spending a
little bit more of our time?
>> Oh, time standing
still is good.
I interviewed Quincy Jones
for "Positive Energy,"
and he talks about creativity
is waiting for the goosebumps.
>> Yeah.
>> That he doesn't do anything
until the goosebumps come.
>> Yeah.
>> So that might be a little
bit more relatable than time
stopping.
That time stopping is quite an
amazing experience, isn't it,
when hours go by.
>> Well, that's how it is for
me in any creative endeavor.
I have no idea
where I am in time.
>> Yeah.
I do too.
I mean, sometimes I don't know
what day of the week it is.
I have to ask people.
Is it Thursday?
Is it Monday?
I don't know when I'm writing
because, I just don't--
I surrender so much.
I lose that sense of time and
space, which is really nice.
>> Right.
>> I enjoy it.
But I think for everyone
to experience creativity
it's just letting something flow
through you, even if you wake
up in the morning
before work and you
feel like moving and dancing.
Just twirl.
Just twirl!
>> Twirl, yeah.
>> And that's it.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> You have life--
you have kind of characteristic
personality types
when it comes to energy and
how you relate to energy,
and what you need to do
to rebalance yourself.
And I just jotted
down a few notes
on these, because they're
kind of simple archetypes
that we usually fall into.
Would you say the majority
of us falls into one,
but we may have some
other smaller proportions
of ourself that are in others?
So you go with the
dominant archetype?
>> Sure.
Yes.
>> So the dominant archetypes
here are the intellect,
the empath, the rock, the
gusher, and the floater.
>> Right.
>> Do you care to talk
a little bit about that?
Kind of our little news you can
use and take home right now,
with this.
>> Well, they're just guidelines
to how you primarily relate
to the world, and how others
primarily relate to the world,
so you can better relate to
them by knowing their ways.
You have to honor their way,
and you have to honor your way.
Some people, for instance,
are primarily intellectual,
where they like to
operate out of their head,
they like linear thought,
they like abstract thinking,
and they like to analyze.
And this is primarily the
place where they come from.
All right?
And there's nothing wrong with
that, but what I'm suggesting
is that people balance
it a little bit more.
You know, if they're in their
heads all the time, perhaps
they want to be more
of an empath, which
is the type I described before,
which is open and sensitive,
and absorbing the
world, and taking on--
feeling the vibes of the world.
So if someone's
an intellect, they
might want to balance
that type with more
of an intuitive expression.
And an empath, on
the other hand,
who is very sensitive
and intuitive,
and spiritual and
open, might want
to analyze a little bit more,
have more linear thinking
and ground themselves more
with linear activities,
so that their intellect can
balance the empathy if it's out
of whack.
So it's just a little
here, a little there.
>> What about the floater?
What's a floater?
>> Oh, the floater is somebody
who's not in their body.
[LAUGHING]
>> One could guess.
Yeah.
>> Having been part
floater in my life,
I'm much more my body
than I used to be.
My tendency though
is to lift out.
During stress, I'll lift out.
I don't go in.
People who are much more
Earth-centered than I am
go into their bodies,
into the core.
They burrow in.
Me, I lift out.
It depends.
It just depends.
>> So floaters need things that
are more grounding, in general.
>> Yes.
Yes.
Including food.
>> Food, yeah.
>> Chicken, fish, protein,
floaters usually can benefit
a lot from that.
>> And the gusher?
>> And the gusher is
someone who just--
you know, everything on their
mind comes out of their mouth.
They are great at
expressing themselves,
great in knowing
what they're feeling,
but they get very anxious
when they can't share.
And so then what they need
to do to balance themselves
is to learn more
self-sufficiency
in going inward and asking
intuitive questions inward,
instead of being totally
dependent on friends
or outside forces to
make them feel better
and relieve their anxiety
when something comes up.
The Gusher's always
on the phone.
>> I see.
>> Well, I'm part gusher.
I really depend on my friends
to process things and talk,
and I really do.
I'm not someone to
keep something in.
That's not a good thing for me.
I don't do it, it's just
not my-- it's not my way.
But it may be good
for somebody else.
These are energetic
preferences, really.
But a gusher really
needs to balance that
by learning self-sufficiency
and learning to go inside more
and ask inner-- for inner
guidance for what feels right.
Not--
>> Oh, yes.
>> Not just outer guidance.
>> What about the rock?
That's the last one
we haven't touched on.
The rock.
>> Well, the rock is somebody
who is very solid and there
for you.
Very earthbound, solid.
This person will always show up
if you have a birthday party,
is always there
on your occasions.
A loyal devoted friend who
tends to listen very well,
but does not express
themselves that well.
And they tend to be
couch potatoes, or maybe
a little boring, or
not emotive, and out of
touch with their passion a bit.
So to balance the other
wonderful qualities
of the rock, you know, are
the more passionate aspects.
The rock could use
a little gusher.
The rock could use a little
sexual energy coming in,
or movement, or
yoga, or something
like that to balance the
good qualities of the rock.
So these are all energetic
propensities, let's say.
>> Within all of
these different types,
it kind of leads into
your newest work.
Everybody would like to know
about the subject of "Emotional
Freedom," and you've done
a lot of work in this area.
Want to give us just a
little teaser on that
before we wrap it up?
>> Oh, I'd be happy to.
I'm so passionate about
this "Emotional Freedom,"
because what it
is is learning how
to transform negative emotions
and not getting mired in them,
and transform them,
working with them to create
more positive
emotions and learning
how to balance yourself.
So it's really a skill.
And I go through all
the different emotions.
How do you deal
with frustration?
How do you deal with anger?
How do you deal with depression?
How do you deal with jealousy?
And how do you transform it to
its positive counterpart by--
not by design, but by
working with the energies
and the intuitions,
and the neurobiology
and the psychology, and the
spirituality of emotions.
There are many different
aspects to emotions.
And once you get the
hang of it, each chapter
is devoted to a
different emotion,
and you'll be prepared
for everything.
>> This is really important,
because it's amazing what
the average human being--
the percentage of
thoughts that go
through their mind
that are negative
versus supportive and positive.
I mean, this is a chronic
condition of humanity,
isn't it?
>> Oh, that's why we're here.
This is a very dark negative
place, along with the positive.
But once we learn how to
work with these emotions, aka
energies--
now they're called emotions and
energies are the same thing--
we'll be able to be
empowered to transform
whatever comes our way.
And that's the point is
transformation, not denial.
Not trying to be too
nice, or too good,
or too giving, but just
working with what you've got,
seeing where you get hooked,
and learning to transform it.
That's very powerful.
Doing it on a day by day basis.
then you could be free.
Otherwise, you are
bogged down by all kinds
of negative thoughts
and feelings
that you don't know
what to do with
and they take over in your body.
And negativity, on
an intuitive level,
has a very strong charge.
It really demands
your attention.
Whereas positive energy, and
calm, and peace, all of that,
is not as showy and flashy
on an intuitive level.
It doesn't grab your attention.
You have to go after it.
It doesn't really
come after you.
Whereas negativity
comes after you,
and you have to make
a decision to center
and transform to get
to a better place.
And so it's kind of
a heroic act that you
could do every day, working
with this negative energy,
because I believe that on
an individual level when
we do this it affects our lives,
and our loved ones, and also
resonates out to
the greater world.
And this is the
secret for getting--
not warring, not going to war.
So when you deal with the
personal issues inside that
cause you to war with
yourself and cause you
to war with others,
and you begin
to gain some command
over that, then you're
not going to want to blow
somebody else up because
of your repressed
anger from childhood.
>> Right.
Right, exactly.
What's the publication
date on that?
>>That's March '09.
>> March '09.
I've got that down.
I want to read that one.
That just sounds--
>> Oh, thank you.
>> --it sounds like
a beautiful work.
And also, just to
kind of wrap it up,
how does your family
deal with you today?
They still don't want to-- they
don't want to still commit you
now, do they?
>> Well, my parents are
both on the other side.
And so--
>> Did they have a chance to see
how you blossomed before they
passed over to the other side?
>> Well, my father did
more than my mother.
My mother was dying when I was
writing my first book, "Second
Sight," and she knew
I was writing the book
and she was really
happy about it.
But she never knew the me, who
was the writer and the author,
and the speaker.
She never knew that me.
I was-- she knew the doctor
who was in private practice,
and you know, and hadn't
explored this sphere before.
But my father saw
this, and he used
to come to my lectures
and sit-in the front row.
And when he was dying, he
used to ask his caregiver
to read from my first
book, "Second Sight," which
was the story of my life.
And she would read
from it, and he
would be sitting there,
laying there, as he was dying,
listening to the
words that I wrote.
It was so touching.
>> That's beautiful.
>> I know.
It's like maybe I
wrote it just for that.
>> Maybe you did.
To go back and help them heal
their own belief systems,
you know?
>> Or to pass over.
>> And to pass over.
>> Absolutely.
>> Beautiful.
Well, thank you
so much for this.
This has just been so
helpful for so many people.
And we all look forward to
this release in March of '09.
In the meantime, you have a
lot of other books out there,
and you're out there speaking,
and you do engagements.
So will people be able to go
right to your website from here
and--
>> Oh, yeah.
>> --tune in with your work.
>> OK.
Well, I look forward
to meeting everybody.
>> Thank you.
>> To go to Judith's website
for updates on workshops
and speaking engagements,
just click on the link below.
You can also pick up a
copy of one of her books
by clicking on the
Amazon link below.
For more practical
information on taking
care of our own
energy fields, you
might also enjoy our interviews
with Christine Page or Peter
Fairfield.
Until next time, thanks
for watching CMN.
[MUSIC PLAYING]